Add support for OPA: add resource opa_cli and opa_api (#5592)
chef/inspec: docs-chef-io/content/inspec/resources/opa_api.md

+++
title = "opa_api resource"
draft = false
gh_repo = "inspec"
platform = "os"

[menu]
  [menu.inspec]
    title = "opa_api"

>     identifier = "inspec/resources/os/opa_api.md mongodb_conf resource"

Reviewer: should this be mongodb_conf @IanMadd ?

Author: Thanks, @tas50. I have created PR fot that.

    parent = "inspec/resources/os"
+++

> Use the `opa_api` Chef InSpec audit resource to query the OPA using the OPA url and data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `opa_api` Chef InSpec audit resource to query Open Policy Agent (OPA) using the OPA URL and data.
```

## Availability

### Installation

This resource is distributed along with Chef InSpec itself. You can use it automatically.

## Syntax

> A `opa_api` resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An `opa_api` resource block declares OPA policy configurations that can be tested.
```

    describe opa_api(url: "localhost:8181/v1/data/example/violation", data: "input.json") do
      its(["result"]) { should eq 'value' }
    end

where

- `'url'` specifies the url of the OPA server on which OPA is running.
- `'data'` specifies the json formatted data or json file.

> - `its(["result"]) { should eq 'value' }` compares the results of the query against the expected result in the test

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `its(["returned_result"]) { should eq 'expected_result' }` compares the results of the query against the expected result in the test.
```

## parameters

> `opa_api` resource InSpec resource accepts `url` and `data`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `opa_api` resource InSpec resource requires a `url` and `data` as a JSON file or a string in JSON format.
```

### `url` _(required)_

> URL of the OPA API server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The URL of the OPA API server.
```

### `data` _(required)_

> This accepts input.json file or input data in json format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An OPA query as a JSON data file or a string in JSON format.
```

## Examples

The following examples show how to use this Chef InSpec audit resource.

    describe opa_api(url: "localhost:8181/v1/data/example/allow", data: "input.json") do
      its(["result"]) { should eq true }
      its("allow") { should eq "true" }
    end

> Above example shows how `allow` value can be fetched in 2 ways.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above example shows how the `allow` value can be fetched in two ways.
```
